# WECG Meetings 2021, Public Notes, July 22

* Chair: Simeon Vincent
* Scribes: Rob Wu

Time: 11 PM PDT = https://everytimezone.com/?t=60f8b500,708

Call-in details: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/internal-webextensions/2021Jun/0000.html

Zoom issues?  ping @zombie (Tomislav Jovanovic, Mozilla) in [chat](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#joining-chat)

## Agenda: [github issues](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues)

* [Issue 13](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/13): Where do we start for a draft? \
[Issue 30](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/30): Set up Bikeshed spec pipeline \
[PR 36](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/pull/36): Initial bikeshed file
    * Status check on PR
    * Manifest specification format - JSON schema?
    * Approach to drafting/merging changes
* [TPAC 2021](https://www.w3.org/wiki/TPAC/2021/GroupMeetings)

## Queue (add yourself at the bottom)

* (sign up here)

## Attendees (sign yourself in)

Put a \*\*\* if you prefer this time slot:

1. Rob Wu (Mozilla)
2. Simeon Vincent (Google)
3. Tim Hatcher (Apple)
4. Tomislav Jovanovic (Mozilla)
5. Mélanie Chauvel (Dashlane)
6. Marwan Liani (Dashlane)
7. Sohail Rajdev (Microsoft)
8. Mukul Purohit (Microsoft)
9. Jack Works \*\*\* (Sujitech)

## Meeting notes

* This is the first meeting in a different time slot, meant to allow people at the other side of the globe to attend (following [issue 31](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/31)).
* [simeon] We should have invited the chair of the previous browser-ext community group (Florian) to this meeting.

[Issue 30](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/30): Set up Bikeshed spec pipeline

* [PR 36](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/pull/36): Initial bikeshed file
* [mukul] Need another round of review, then probably ready to merge.
* [simeon] Next is to set up publishing, e.g. via Github actions.
    * [hober] example of repo that uses Github actions: https://github.com/w3ctag/security-questionnaire/blob/main/.github/workflows/deploy.yml
    * [mukul] Going to look into setting up this publishing automation.

[Issue 13](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/13): Where do we start for a draft

* [simeon] How do we go on specifying the manifest file itself? E.g. JSON schema?
* [tomislav] We (at Firefox) have described the manifest format in JSON schemas, initially based on Chrome's.
* [simeon] Approach to drafting/merging changes
    * [simeon] Is editors draft the latest version of the merged version?
    * [hober] Yes. Editors draft is terminology of other groups. The bikeshed tool has a field for that.
* [simeon] Will file a new issue specifically about tracking work on the manifest file.
    * [rob] For tracking work we could use labels or projects on Github to group relevant issues.
    * [simeon] was referring to the content, since we're effectively starting with an empty document.
    * [tim] With what properties?
    * [mélanie] The previous community group had a section on manifest.json in their draft, maybe we could use it as a base to discuss what we want/don't want for our own draft: https://browserext.github.io/browserext/#manifest-json

[TPAC 2021](https://www.w3.org/wiki/TPAC/2021/GroupMeetings)

* [simeon] Maybe have a breakout session for our group?
* [hober] Last time was the first time we did a virtual TPAC. Extensions haven't been a topic so far, this would be a good opportunity to get more people involved.
* (discussion about relevant topics where we could integrate in other groups)
    * [tomislav] sandboxes for content scripts / isolated worlds concept
    * [tim] Content Security Policy
    * [simeon] WebTransport - https://w3c.github.io/webtransport/?
    * [simeon] File access replacement for fetch file://-request.
    * [simeon] Going to file an issue where we can track topics.
* [mukul] Are there other groups that specify manifest/JSON files from where we can draw inspiration?
    * [tim] Perhaps [Web Application Manifest](https://www.w3.org/TR/appmanifest/)
* [mukul] What is the typical timeline for establishing the schedule?
    * [hober] Outreach to other groups should start in August at the latest.

Meeting evaluation

* [tim] added calendar items to https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/webextensions/calendar
* [jack] this time works great for me.
* [tomislav] Didn't have as many attendees as before, but we didn't announce.
* [tomislav] Perhaps meet in this slot once in every four meetings (so effectively once every two months).
* [simeon] Let's try to meet with this schedule biweekly at least once more to see if more people would join in this time slot.
* [timothy] also in favor of keeping this schedule biweekly and possibly revisit later.
* [rob] Queue is empty since the headings were filled at the last minute.
    * [tomislav] some projects use github labels to automatically add to the agenda
    * [simeon] concerned about losing the context of the discussion in meetings like we currently have in one canonical document if we were to switch to labels.
        * [rob] After the last meeting I referenced the discussed issues in the [PR where the meeting notes were submitted](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/pull/37), to increase the visibility of the discussed issues during the meeting.
        * Simeon and Tim will tag-team chairing this meeting from now on.
    * [rob] Let's create the template for the upcoming meeting after the end of the meeting from now on.

The next meeting will be on Thursday, August 5th, [8 AM PDT (3 PM UTC)](https://everytimezone.com/?t=610b2a00,384).
